# 	On Tour: Harnessing Social Tourism Data for City and Point-of-Interest Recommendation
In this MSc thesis project, I introduce a variety of data-driven models for recommending both city destinations and within-city points of interest to tourists. The models are implemented with a novel dataset of travel histories, derived from social media data, which is larger by size and scope than in prior work. All proposed models outperform simple baselines in cross-validation experiments, with the strongest variants reliably including tourists’ true movements among their top recommendations. 

## Required Data
The YFCC100M core dataset and Places expansion pack, both available from [here](https://multimediacommons.wordpress.com/yfcc100m-core-dataset/). They come in the form of Bzip2-compressed files.

## Required software
Python 3, with the following libraries in addition to the built-in ones: 
* BZ2
* Pandas
* Overpy

## Overview of operation

As-is, the scripts assume the working directory has subfolders named `correlations`, `evaluation`, `histories`, `ML`, `photos_by_town`, `POIs_by_town`, `profiles` and `visits_by_town`.

The numbered scripts (`1a`... `12b`) are intended to be run in order; each depends on data generated by the previous ones. `a` and `b` are used when two scripts are not mutually-dependent.

`1a`  Extract photos by city from YFCC100M and save out as CSV files.

`1b`  Obtain POIs for all cities from OpenStreetMap.

`2a`  Perform a first pass through the dataset and attempt to label visits with POIs.

`2b`  Extract the number of photos taken by each user in each city, to be used for city recommendation.

`3`   Perform a second *bootstrapping* pass to label more visits with POIs.    

`4`   Processed the labelled visits into per-user histories in JSON format.

`5`   Make a profile for each POI summarising its visit count and times.

`6a`  Make a profile for each POI category summarising its visit count and times.

`6b`  Make a profile for each city summarising its distribution of visits by category.

`7`   Make a profile for each tourist summarising their visit history and category preferences.

`8`   **Run the city recommender.*

`9`   Compute POI correlation matrices for the *fHist* feature, the most computationally-intensive part of POI recommendation.

`10`  Create training, validation and test sets for POI recommendation.

`11`  Train the *Lin* and *NN* POI scoring methods using a learning-to-rank algorithm.

`12`  **Run the POI recommender on the test set.**
